hey guys welcome back to the channel
after the success of jaws we've seen
quite a few
shark based survival horror films and
they've had well let's call them mixed
results
but one of those movies that was
surprisingly entertaining was 47 meters
down
the movie follows two sisters as they go
cage diving and it doesn't take long for
things to get out of control
they end up dropping to the bottom of
the ocean and the pair must try to
survive and get back to the surface
all while being surrounded by
bloodthirsty sharks in this video we'll
look at each character's decisions and
present alternative
solutions that could increase their
chance of survival the movie begins with
our two protagonists
lisa and kate as they're spending their
vacation in a hotel in mexico
that night kate takes lisa to a local
club where they meet two guys
lewis and benjamin both of them like
doing various risky activities for fun
and one of those things
is shark cage diving the two girls get
invited to go with them the following
day
since kate has some diving experience
she loves the idea but lisa is quite
skeptical and informs them that she
can't
go because she doesn't have a diver's
license but the guys just laugh it off
and tell her to not worry about it
they all want her to go and eventually
she gives in and reluctantly agrees to
join them
so the next day they arrive at the pier
waiting for the diving boat
the group is met by captain taylor and
his co-worker javier
the captain asks if they have any diving
experience as it's required for the trip
and the girls both say yes but they
don't look so sure
taylor simply takes them by their word
and they all take a small boat to the
diving ship which is very isolated in
the middle of the ocean
when they arrive the ship seems really
old and is rusty all over
the cage they will be taking is really
just one big pile of rust and seems
pretty unsafe
lewis and benjamin repeatedly assure the
girls that it's fine and they've done it
many times without any mishaps
during these first few moments there are
numerous warning signs that could stop
them from getting into trouble in the
first place
of course when operating diving gear you
must be able to use it but that's not
even the worst part the
captain seems incredibly irresponsible
he blindly trusts the girls when they
say they have their licenses
even though it looks like they're hiding
something this might indicate a general
disregard for safety which could lead to
serious problems later on
especially when one of the girls has no
diving experience at all
also the ship honestly it looks like a
piece of
everything is worn down old and just
barely functioning
this entire operation doesn't seem very
professional and the girls were even
worn by the hotel they're staying in to
book their activities through them for
safety reasons
well remember what the concierge said
that we should book all activities in
tournaments
now when lisa brings this up kate tells
her that they only say that to maximize
their revenue and that might be true to
a certain degree
however tourists are also much more
likely to be scammed or tricked into
dangerous situations in foreign
countries
especially when they're persuaded by
very confident people
so the crew sets up the cage and the two
guys go first after the sisters put on
their diving gear taylor gives them a
few pointers on what to do once it's
their turn
he also shows them how all the equipment
works kate already knows all this but
lisa chose to be a complete
novice check your air you should both
have 200 bar
that's your air okay this is another
point for the captain should ask to see
her license as lisa is extremely nervous
and has no idea what any of the
equipment is
and the cage seems pretty fragile as
well thanks to its thin metal bars not
to mention its rustic colors
furthermore the full mask and scuba gear
that the two girls use
is meant for deep diving usually shark
diving is done on the surface and
doesn't require you to carry an
oxygen tank beginners typically wear
snorkels anyway a few moments later we
get to see the sisters as they slowly
submerge a few feet into the ocean
they get an amazing view of the sharks
and can't believe how big they are in
real life
a few minutes later they noticed the
cage shaking and it slightly drops
downwards
in her panic lisa yells at kate that
they should surface immediately
are you crazy no we would like to come
back up now please
listen stand by they both tell the
captain to do so via a communications
device in their masks
as they're being pulled upwards the
boat's winch mechanism breaks and the
two begin hurling down into the water
moments later the sisters crash into the
seabed their equipment reveals that they
are 47 meters below the surface
to make matters worse the winch pulley
fell down with them so there's almost no
way to pull them back
up and the metal arm from the winch is
pinning the cage's door closed so the
girls can't even get out
because the communication signal at that
depth is pretty weak
they can't talk to the others on the
boat this means that one of the girls
needs to get out of the cage and swim
upwards until they get a better signal
but they'd also be exposed to the sharks
after a few attempts kate figures out
that she can just barely fit through a
small gap if she removes her mask
she climbs out and holds her breath lisa
quickly passes the tank and mask back to
her
kate then manages to pull off the
structure that's pinning down the door
but in exchange she consumes a lot of
oxygen because of the strainous task
she swims up to the 40 meter mark where
she's luckily able to contact captain
taylor
the man gives them instructions that
they should stay in the cage and his
co-worker javier will dive down to
reattach a spare winch so they can get
up
it's also revealed that kade only has 55
bars of pressure left in her oxygen tank
which is almost half and doesn't leave
them with a lot of time
but taylor warns the two not to rush
back up to the surface since they will
experience the bends
also known as rapid decompression
sickness it's a condition where the
nitrogen in your body can block blood
vessels and major organs through small
clots
and this can be deadly this is another
pivotal moment since both the captain
and cage should have assessed the
situation more carefully both sisters
have limited air and just sitting there
for help to arrive has its consequences
javier doesn't have their exact location
so it could take some time to find them
also he's exposing himself to the
dangerous sharks so there's no guarantee
he'll even arrive
now in real life sharks rarely attack
humans because it's not what they eat
but in the movie they often bite people
so here's what they can do while it
might sound risky the two girls could
disobey the captain's instructions and
try to surface immediately
that's because taylor's explanation of
the benz is only half true
based on the us navy's decompression
table a diver can spend up to 5 minutes
at 47 meters below the surface without
decompressing throughout their ascent
so they could surface pretty quickly if
they do it up to 5 minutes after they
hit the ocean floor
but if the captain insists on them
staying down there he should immediately
call the coast guard for help
he does this later on towards the end of
the movie but it should be one of the
first courses of action because the
girls may be in more trouble than he
realizes
the maximum safe depth for a first time
diver is 100 feet
and that is the absolute maximum usually
it's only up to 67 feet but the girls
are at 47 meters which is more than
150 feet that's more than double what's
saved for lisa since it's her first dive
even for kate it's far too much since
the limit for recreational diving once
you get your certification is only about
130 feet
these significant deaths put them at
risk of something called nitrogen
narcosis which is explained later in the
movie but basically since they have
little to no
experience diving so deep the air they
breathe can impair their judgement
their sense of orientation and muscle
function which isn't ideal when fighting
for your life in the ocean
so skate is heading back to the cage to
inform lisa of the captain's plan of
sending down javier
a sharksman spy them seemingly out of
nowhere when kate finally manages to get
back inside
the shark swims towards them and rams
the bars almost breaking through one of
the iron rods
luckily he eventually leaves them alone
after they try to be as quiet and still
as possible
this scene confirms our suspicion that
the thin bars offer limited protection
from such large predators
if the shark had continued attacking
them or if there is more than one of him
they could easily break in leaving lisa
and kate defenseless against the sharks
we also see that the cage has a big
light in each corner
these knights can actually attract
sharks which heightens the risk of them
being attacked
they should either cover or break them
to decrease their visibility and risk of
being killed
after this the two have a brief talk but
a few seconds later they hear the boat's
engine buzzing and quickly panic
thinking they are being left behind
kate tries to contact the ship by
swimming a few meters up like before
but once again one of the bloodthirsty
sharks comes from behind and tries to
bite her
she quickly makes her way to lisa when
all hope appears to be lost they see a
ray of light nearby and assume it's from
javier
unfortunately he can't seem to find
where they are they decide that one of
them has to get out of the cage and swim
towards them
but because kate has been outside more
often she now only has 17 bars of oxygen
left
to ensure their survival for a little
while longer the inexperienced lisa
decides to go instead
since she has more air in her tank as
she makes her way towards javier's
flashlight a shark sneaks up behind lisa
and almost bites her
she's able to quickly swim into a
shallow cave where she temporarily hides
the shark tries making its way towards
the rocks but it's too large to fit in
the gaps
lisa could have taken this opportunity
to do some damage to the shark
she can use some nearby rocks and hit
its sensitive snout or
gills this might do enough damage for it
to leave the area or lose interest in
its prey
moments later lisa comes by a dark abyss
and conquers her fears by slowly diving
through it
and on the other end she finally finds
javier but just a few seconds after
their meeting he gets eaten by a shark
later lisa finds his lifeless corpse
floating in the ocean
she checks his oxygen tank but it's
completely empty
fortunately he did have a spear gun and
a new winch which she takes
lisa hurries back through the darkness
and finds her sister and informs kate of
javier's demise
she quickly attaches the winch to the
cage and goes up to contact taylor
she's able to reach him and tells him
that he can start getting them up it's
lisa
we managed to attach the cable to the
top of the cage we need to come up right
now
after returning to her sister they
slowly began moving to the top
and the girls are ecstatic however the
girls celebration is cut short when the
cable slowly breaks with only 28 meters
to the surface
taylor tells them he will slow down
their ascent to not overpower the cable
unfortunately shortly after that the
wire snaps and the cage once again drops
down to the bottom
so when the cage first started to shake
the sisters should have reacted quickly
and gotten out of it
they were in a very similar situation as
the first time it broke
it slowly started to drop a few inches
after which it completely fell
and before the wire ripped there were
about 20 seconds where they could leave
it took some time for it to break which
they could have used to their advantage
by unlocking the door and getting out
as a result of the hard fall lisa's leg
is caught under one of the bars and the
cage's weight holds her down
cait then checks her oxygen supply and
it's down to 5 bars which means she only
has about a minute of air left
surprisingly this time taylor can
contact them over the radio
he tells the sisters that he'll drop
down two tanks of oxygen so they can
survive a little longer however the
captain warns them that changing the
tanks may cause nitrogen narcosis
which leads to hallucinations and severe
cognitive impairment
taylor also tells them he called the
coast guard and they're coming with a
team of expert divers in about an
hour they just need to stay put until
they arrive in real life though it's
almost impossible to last that long with
just one tank of oxygen
the ones they're using here are aluminum
80s which holds 80 cubic feet of air
according to several diving websites
that will last you only 30 to 45 minutes
and that's under the assumption that
you're not doing a lot of intense
activities
meaning that by the time the coast guard
arrives it would be already too
late so the girls patiently wait and
eventually see the two new tanks drop
near them the only challenge is getting
them inside the cage while there are
multiple sharks around
since kate is the only one mobile she
heads for the supplies even though her
air is almost completely out meanwhile
lisa tries warning her when the sharks
are coming
kate's strategy is to stick as close to
the ocean floor as possible to reduce
the directions where she could be
attacked
she's able to get the tank and replenish
her air supply but lisa still needs hers
kate is also able to take three flares
however as she's heading back to her
sister
a shark quickly emerges she's able to
fight it off for some time but just when
she thinks she's clear of danger it's
able to bite her
kate drops lisa's tank leaving her with
a quickly depleting air supply
in this situation kate should have
looked around first and made sure the
shark was near her and she can stay down
on the ocean floor so that lisa can get
a better view of her surroundings as it
was right when she got up that she was
bitten
kate could also use the flares if she's
having trouble seeing meaning that she
might have spotted the shark early
enough to save herself
furthermore lisa can tell her sister to
take the spear gun they got from javier
before heading out to get the tanks
after thinking that her sister is dead
lisa decides that she must do whatever
it takes to survive
using the nearby spearguns tip as a hook
she's able to drag the tank into the
cage and resupply herself with air just
as the old tank is running completely
dry
so the last few decisions made by lisa
are by far among the smartest
she used the tools available to help her
get out of a tight situation
moments after breathing in the air out
of the new tank we hear that kate is
still alive despite being severely
injured
however her buoyancy control device or
bcd
was damaged during the attack a bcd
functions kind of like an inflatable
balloon that can help them get to the
top when they make their ascent
but not only is the bcd broken oxygen is
also escaping kate's tank
this leads to her only having a few
minutes left before she once again runs
out of air
when lisa hears about the damaged bcd
she thinks of a clever solution by
putting hers under a bar close to her
leg
she then inflates it and can lift the
cage enough to free her legs with only
minor injuries
following this lisa leaves the cage and
finds her sister who's lonely bleeding
out
since they're running out of time they
have no choice but to surface
immediately
even though there's a high chance that
the sharks will attack them while
ascending they contact taylor who once
again warns them about the bends
they reluctantly agree to go up slower
and properly decompress
since they face a severe risk of dying
otherwise the pair also use the flares
they grab to ward off the shark circling
them
but as one of them goes out and they
light a new flare three big sharks are
seen swimming around the girls
now sharks don't actually circle you if
they want to eat you but let's assume
they do
because once again that's how the movie
portrays it here are a couple things you
can do if a shark wants to attack
you you should avoid any sudden
movements also if the shark attacks you
you must fight back aggressively and hit
it in the eyes
gills or snout as these are the most
sensitive parts
if you can try to use rocks as weapons
and don't stop
fighting until it leaves but even if the
shark does swim away
it may come back and try to attack again
it's important to be aware of this and
not just assume that you're free
and when you're on the surface swimming
towards a boat make sure to swim with
long clean strokes don't smash the water
too much as this attracts the shards
anyway to avoid one of the girls getting
hurt taylor tells them to release their
vcd and head straight up to the surface
they comply with the captain's advice
and quickly go to the top but the sharks
are still in pursuit
the guys on the boat see the girls in
the water and throw them a life saver
the two go towards the group and just
when they are a few seconds away from
being on the ship
one of the sharks bites lisa deep in the
leg and drags her down back into the
water
she reacts quickly by pounding the nose
and scratching its eye
the shark swims away and the others
manage to finally pull her onto the boat
and it looks like they're safe
in this scenario fighting the shark is a
good idea some accounts of real people
that were in a similar situation say
they could escape the attack by hitting
the
animal either by kicking or punching
them so moments after
lisa lies on the boat we see that the
air looks really distorted almost like
it's underwater
it's then revealed that everything that
happened after lisa connected her second
oxygen tank was only an hallucination
from nitrogen narcosis
in reality she's still trapped in the
cage with her leg pinned under the bars
she's merely laughing and giggling while
thinking she and her sister
made it out alive then while lisa is
still hallucinating we see a few lights
from the coast guard rescue divers they
have finally arrived and are ready to
get lisa out of here for real this time
so those are some ways to beat 47 meters
down
as always let me know if i missed
anything thank you so much for watching
i'll see you in the next one
bye guys